docs/index.md, before:

# Post-Quantum File Encryption (PQFE)

A secure post-quantum encryption system utilizing Kyber for file-based encryption and decryption operations.

## Overview

PQFE is a Python library that provides post-quantum secure file encryption using the Kyber key encapsulation mechanism (KEM). It is designed to be easy to use while maintaining strong security guarantees for protecting files against future quantum computer attacks.

## Features

- Post-quantum secure file encryption using Kyber
- Support for multiple Kyber variants (Kyber512, Kyber768, Kyber1024)
- Simple API for file encryption and decryption
- Secure key management
- Hybrid encryption scheme (Kyber + AES-256-GCM)
- Comprehensive error handling
- Performance benchmarking tools

## Quick Start

```python
from pqfe import PQFE

# Initialize with desired Kyber variant
pqfe = PQFE(variant="Kyber512")

# Generate keys
public_key, private_key = pqfe.generate_keys()

# Encrypt a file
result = pqfe.encrypt_file("document.txt", public_key)

# Decrypt the file
decrypted_path = pqfe.decrypt_file(result["encrypted_file_path"], private_key)
```

## Security Considerations

- Uses Kyber, a NIST PQC finalist for key encapsulation
- Implements hybrid encryption with AES-256-GCM
- Secure key storage and management
- Protection against side-channel attacks

## Documentation

- [Installation Guide](installation.md)
- [API Documentation](api.md)
- [Security Guidelines](security.md)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](../LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Enhance api  (#11)
* Refactor configuration and key management modules; add symmetric cipher implementations

* Refactor utils.py: improve docstrings and implement create_metadata function

* Enhance file operation tests: add tests for writing/reading decrypted files and improve cleanup logic

* Update documentation: enhance descriptions of features, initialization, and file operations for clarity and detail

* Fix indentation in Docker workflow and update README with new features and options

* Add copyright notices to source files for 2025

* Add unit tests for symmetric cipher functionality

* Refactor encryption methods in KyberEncryption and SymmetricCipher classes for improved clarity and functionality

* Refactor test cases in KyberEncryption tests for improved clarity and functionality

* Add support for in-memory encryption and decryption by introducing an optional encrypted_data parameter

* Add encrypted_data parameter to PQFE class for in-memory decryption

* Update copyright notice in __init__.py file

* Refactor CI workflow and Dockerfile for improved build efficiency and clarity

* Update copyright notice in Dockerfile and test_api.py

docs/index.md, after:

# Post-Quantum File Encryption (PQFE)

A secure post-quantum encryption system utilizing Kyber for file-based encryption and decryption operations. The library implements a hybrid encryption scheme that combines post-quantum key encapsulation with a modern symmetric cipher, ensuring both strong security and efficient file handling.

## Overview

PQFE is a Python library that provides post-quantum secure file encryption using the Kyber key encapsulation mechanism (KEM). Its modular design allows for the selection of different Kyber variants and symmetric ciphers (AES256GCM or ChaCha20Poly1305) to fit varying security and performance requirements.

## Features

- **Post-Quantum Security:**  
  Uses Kyber (a NIST PQC finalist) for secure key encapsulation.
- **Hybrid Encryption:**  
  Combines Kyber with a modern symmetric cipher for efficient file encryption.
- **Pluggable Symmetric Ciphers:**  
  Default is AES256GCM; users can choose ChaCha20Poly1305 as an alternative.
- **Flexible File I/O:**  
  Supports configurable output directories, custom filenames, and in-memory operations.
- **Secure Key Management:**  
  Integrated key generation and loading from a secure storage directory.
- **Comprehensive Error Handling:**  
  Detailed exceptions to facilitate debugging and secure usage.

## Quick Start

```python
from pqfe import PQFE

# Initialize PQFE with Kyber512 and default AES256GCM symmetric cipher
pqfe = PQFE(variant="Kyber512")

# Generate keys
public_key, private_key = pqfe.generate_keys()

# Encrypt a file (results include Kyber ciphertext and shared secret)
result = pqfe.encrypt_file("document.txt", public_key=public_key)

# Decrypt the file
decrypted = pqfe.decrypt_file(result["encrypted_file_path"], result["ciphertext"], private_key=private_key)
```

## Security Considerations

- Utilizes Kyber for robust post-quantum key encapsulation.
- Implements a hybrid encryption model combining Kyber with AES256GCM (or ChaCha20Poly1305).
- Secure key storage and management with configurable directories.
- Designed to protect against both classical and quantum attacks.

## Documentation

- [Installation Guide](installation.md)
- [API Documentation](api.md)
- [Security Guidelines](security.md)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](../LICENSE) file for details.
